# wppsvr — Weekly Packet Practice Server

`wppsvr` is a server that retrieves, analyzes, responds to, and reports on SCCo
weekly packet practice messages.  Its results are available through a web server
that it hosts.

`wppsvr` takes no command line arguments; simply start it from within the
directory that contains its data files.  Only one copy of `wppsvr` can be
running at a time; if you start a second copy (in the same directory), it will
exit immediately and silently.  (This allows for a primitive HA mechanism:
start new copies of it frequently, and if they aren't needed they'll go away
instantly.)

In its working directory, `wppsvr` expects to find three files:

* `config.yaml` contains the configuration for the server.  Consult the comments
  in that file for detailed explanations of the configuration options.
* `wppsvr.db` contains the server database.  It is a SQLite 3 database; the
  schema for it is in `store/schema.sql`.
* `run.lock` is used to ensure that only one copy of `wppsvr` is running at a
  time.  It will be created if it doesn't already exist.

## Theory of Operation

`wppsvr` is organized around the concept of a "session", which is a collection
of messages and responses that are reported together.  As of this writing,
SCCo has two sessions each week: a SPECS net session (running from Tuesday 00:00
to Monday 19:00) and an SVECS session (running from Wednesday 00:00 to Tuesday
19:00), plus a hospital net session running from 18:00 to 19:30 on the fourth
Wednesday of each month.  However, any number and scheduling of sessions can be
defined.

Each session has parameters defining it.  These include:

* The name of the session (e.g., "SVECS Net"), and the call sign and message
  number prefix to be used for it (e.g., "PKTTUE" and "TUE").
* The start and end times of the session.
* The set of BBSes to which practice messages should be sent for the session,
  and the set of BBSes that are simulated "down" for the session.
* The set of BBSes from which practice messages should be retrieved, and the
  schedule and mechanism by which those retrievals are performed.
* The set of practice message types that are supposed to be sent for the
  session, or alternatively, the specific practice message that is supposed to
  be sent.

Each session has a set of messages that were received for it.  (Note: in all
`wppsvr` documentation and code, "message" refers to a *received* message.
The transmissions generated by `wppsvr` are referred to as "responses" and
"reports", not "messages".)

When a message is received for a session, it is analyzed according to the
parameters of the session.  Analysis of a message can detect a variety of
problems.  The configuration file describes how each type of problem should be
handled:  whether it should be reported, whether the message should count as a
valid "check-in", etc.

In most cases a delivery receipt will be generated and sent for the received
message.  The message, its analysis, and the generated responses are then stored
in the `wppsvr.db` database.

At the end of the session, a report will be generated, saved in the database,
and sent to the recipients identified in the session parameters.  Reports on
sessions (even incomplete ones) are also available through the web server
interface.

## Web Server

The web server interface runs independently from the message retrieval,
analysis, and reporting system.  The front page of the web interface gives basic
statistics on the most recently concluded SPECS and SVECS nets, and the ones in
progress.  (Note: this front page is the only part of the entire `wppsvr`
system that has information about those specific nets hard-coded.)

All other information provided by the web server requires a valid login.
`wppsvr` does not maintain its own user database; it relies on the
scc-ares-races.org database.  Specifically, whenever anyone attempts to log into
the `wppsvr` web interface, `wppsvr` takes their provided call sign and password
and uses them to attempt to log into scc-ares-races.org.  If the login to
scc-ares-races.org is successful, they are considered logged into `wppsvr`.
`wppsvr` does not use any data from scc-ares-races.org other than detecting
whether a particular call sign and password combination is valid.

Once logged in, users are shown a calendar with all sessions on it.  Clicking on
a session will show its report and give access to its messages and responses.
On the calendar, each session has a notation.  Initially, those notations show
the current user's practice history:  whether they sent a practice message for
each session, and whether those message had problems.  However, the display can
be changed to show the total message counts for each session instead.
Privileged users can also change the calendar to show some other user's practice
history.

The displayed report for a session may be either static or interactive.  Reports
that were generated by previous packet NCO scripts are presented statically, and
are recognizable because they are in fixed-width font.  Reports for sessions
handled by `wppsvr` are presented interactively.  In the list of messages for a
session, users will see their own message presented with a hyperlink that will
allow them to see the message that was sent and the responses that were
generated for it.  Privileged users will see such a hyperlink on all messages,
not just their own.

## Software Layout

`wppsvr` has the following sub-packages:

* `analyze` handles analysis of retrieved messages and generation of responses.
* `cmd/reanalyze` is a command that forces the messages in a session to be
  re-analyzed.  This can be used after the analysis code has been updated, in
  order to correct an error in analysis.
* `cmd/send-report` generates and sends the report for a session.  (This is in
  addition to the automatic send at the end of the session period.)
* `cmd/test-history` re-analyzes a set of past messages and ensures that their
  analysis did not change.  It is used in testing wppsvr changes.
* `config` handles reading the `config.yaml` configuration file.
* `english` contains utility functions for generating English prose in problem
  responses.
* `interval` contains code for parsing and interpreting time interval
  specifications, as used in the `config.yaml` configuration file.
* `report` contains code for generating and sending session reports.
* `retrieve` contains code for retrieving messages from BBSes.
* `store` contains the code for managing the `wppsvr.db` database.
* `webserver` contains the code for the web interface.

The `wppsvr` package itself contains code for managing the log files as well as
the main session retrieve-analyze-report loop.
